# P5 project – Identify Fraud from Enron Emails
## By Min Lu
### 1.	Summarize for us the goal of this project and how machine learning is useful in trying to accomplish it. As part of your answer, give some background on the dataset and how it can be used to answer the project question. Were there any outliers in the data when you got it, and how did you handle those?  [relevant rubric items: “data exploration”, “outlier investigation”]
The goal of this project is to use financial and email data from Enron dataset to identify “Person of Interest” (POI). The dataset contained 146 employees with a labeled feature(POI), 14 financial features and 6 email features. 18 of them were labeled as a “Person of Interest” (POI). Machine learning techniques are widely used for developing models to learn and predict on data. So, machine learning is well suited to obtain data-driven solutions to such questions. Before choosing the features to test machine learning algorithm, I used histograms of features to get their distributions. We can find two spot outliers. One huge outlier is called “Total” and there’s another non-employee entry in the dataset “The travel agency in the park”. We also find “Lockhart Eugene E’. All features are NaN. So, we will remove this one, too. Finally, We put codes to remove all of them.
### 2.	What features did you end up using in your POI identifier, and what selection process did you use to pick them? Did you have to do any scaling? Why or why not? As part of the assignment, you should attempt to engineer your own feature that does not come ready-made in the dataset -- explain what feature you tried to make, and the rationale behind it. (You do not necessarily have to use it in the final analysis, only engineer and test it.) In your feature selection step, if you used an algorithm like a decision tree, please also give the feature importances of the features that you use, and if you used an automated feature selection function like SelectKBest, please report the feature scores and reasons for your choice of parameter values.  [relevant rubric items: “create new features”, “properly scale features”, “intelligently select feature”]
First, I added a feature called ‘Fraction_to_poi’. It’s calculated by fraction=poi_messages/all_messages. Then, I used Scikit-learn SelectKBest to select best 7 influential features and use these features to do future algorithm. Here show features and their scores:  'salary' 18.289, 'deferred_income’ 11.46, 'bonus' 20.792, 'total_stock_value' 24.182, 'exercised_stock_options' 24.815, ‘restricted_stock’ 9.21 and ‘long_term_incentive’ 9.92. After reviewing the selected features, we could see 7 of 8 are financial data and only 1 features is from email features. Then, I used min-max scalers to scale all features.
### 3.	What algorithm did you end up using? What other one(s) did you try? How did model performance differ between algorithms?  [relevant rubric item: “pick an algorithm”]
I tried 5 different algorithm. I found AdaBoost has highest precision and recall score. So I decided to use AdaBoost to do further testing.
Algorithm	Precision	Recall
GaussianNB	0.226	0.395
AdaBoost	0.372	0.285
RandomForest	0.375	0.117
DecisionTree	0.232	0.192
SVC	0.361	0.181

### 4.	What does it mean to tune the parameters of an algorithm, and what can happen if you don’t do this well?  How did you tune the parameters of your particular algorithm? What parameters did you tune? (Some algorithms do not have parameters that you need to tune -- if this is the case for the one you picked, identify and briefly explain how you would have done it for the model that was not your final choice or a different model that does utilize parameter tuning, e.g. a decision tree classifier).  [relevant rubric item: “tune the algorithm”]
Tuning the parameters of an algorithm means adjusting the parameters in a certain way to achieve optimal algorithm performance. If we don’t tune the algorithm well, performance may suffer. After I choose Adaboost, I used GridSerchCV to find best parameters. And here’s the final result:
Best parameters are:  {'Adaboost__random_state': None, 'Adaboost__algorithm': 'SAMME.R', 'Adaboost__n_estimators': 100, 'Adaboost__learning_rate': 0.6} 
### 5.	What is validation, and what’s a classic mistake you can make if you do it wrong? How did you validate your analysis?  [relevant rubric item: “validation strategy”]
Validation is a way to substantiate your machine learning algorithm’s performance, like testing how well your model has been trained. A classic validation mistake is testing your algorithm on the same data that was already trained on. Without separating the data. It is difficult to determine how well your algorithm generalizes to new data. In my data set, the test size was 30% of the data and the training set is 70%.
Another classic mistake is overfitting. In overfitting, a model describes random error or noise instead of the underlying relationship. Overfitting occurs when a model is excessively complex, such as having too many parameters relative to the number of observations. A model that has been overfit has poor predictive performance. As it overreacts to minor fluctuations in the training data.
### 6.	Give at least 2 evaluation metrics and your average performance for each of them.  Explain an interpretation of your metrics that says something human-understandable about your algorithm’s performance. [relevant rubric item: “usage of evaluation metrics”]
The two most important metrics for this POI identifier are precision and recall. I got 0.4234 for precision and 0.304 for recall. Precision is how often our class prediction is right when we guess that class. Recall is how often we guess the class when the class actually occurred. With a precision score of 0.4234, it tells us that if this model predicts 100 POIs, then the chance would be 42 people who are truly POIs and the rest 58 are innocent. With a recall score of 0.304, this model can find only 30% of all real POIs in prediction.


